At the present time when every one is being urged to bend every energy toward the conservation of food supplies, it is surprising to me that so little has been written in behalf of the extraordinary value of oatmeal as a diet on which people can live and continue more healthy than on any other cereal in the world.
I wish to present facts, not theories.
I wish to tell of what I know personally on this subject. 
I have not consulted any of the laboratories of research or taken for granted any data from the many-published statistics of individual food sufficiency for sustaining life, but I have only taken facts and invite my readers to form their own conclusions.
My father was a successful farmer in Perthshire, Scotland, and employed quite a number of ploughmen. 
His men were always big strapping fellows, weighing on an average from one hundred and fifty to one hundred and seventy pouds and as strong as oxen. 
None of those men ever saw a two-bushel sack of grain because we never had such sacks. 
What they were acquainted with and were accustomed to handle were four-bushel sacks of wheat, weighing sixty-four pounds per bushel, barley weighing fifty-six pounds per bushel. 
These sacks they would carry on their back and load on their carts and, after being hauled to the city, would again shoulder them and carry them up two and sometimes three flights of stairs in the warehouses. 
There were few elevators in those days.
Now what had those men for breakfast that morning? 
Certainly not beefsteak, ham and eggs, toast, or biscuits. 
No, they had a large bowlful of bcrose. 
Each man takes his large wooden bowl and puts into it three or four handfuls of oatmeal, a big pinch of salt, then pours boiling water on it, stirs it with the handle of his spoon, adds sweet milk, and eats his breakfast. 
When the noon hour comes he goes through the same process; and after the work is finished for the day he generally has a bowl of oatmeal parridge.
The whole time occupied is probably ten minutes. 
Then after smoking a pipe for ten minute more he is ready for a day of strenuous work. 
Each man possesses a half-gallon tin bucket, and that is filled at the dairy every morning before breakfast with sweet milk, and that lasts him for the day. 
No labor is too hard for those men. 
They can stand any strain put before them and never complain of being hungry. 
I never heard the least complaint of indigeston, and the doctor would have starved to death if he had depended on these ploughmen for patients. 
The allowance of meal is seventy pounds every four weeks, and that is all you require to give them. 
Often these men don’t see a piece of meat in months and very seldom do they eat[2] wheat bread. 
Scotland has been called the “Land o’ Cakes” from the fact that an excellent cake can be made of oatmeal. 
The cakes are rolled thin and toasted before an open fire until they are quite hard. 
I have eaten oatmeal cakes in Virginia that were baked in Scotland, two or three months previously and after being heated through they were as crisp as if newly baked.
